# Bitcoin Hasher with Simplified SHA256 Algorithm

## Overview
The Bitcoin Hasher was developed and written in SystemVerilog, a hardware description language, to describe the digital logic of the SHA256 algorithm which produces a unique hash value for each nonce and see how it is implemented in an FPGA board, particularly the Arria II GX board. This is a simpliflied version of the Bitcoin hasher which only produces hash values for the first 16 nonce values. In the Bitcoin hasher design, there are two SHA 256 blocks, one of which takes an input message and produces a unique hash values, and the other takes these hash values for word expansion. Both SHA 256 blocks are simplified so that it only works with input messages of a certain bit size and also, most importantly, improve the performance of the Bitcoin hasher. 

Two different designs of the Bitcoin hasher were developed: a sequential design and a parallel design. The sequential design produces the final hash values by taking each message with a different nonce value, starting with a nonce value of 1, one-by-one until all 16 nonces are fully processed. Whereas, the parallel design produces the final hash values by processing the all 16 nonces simultaneously. The performance of the two designs were measured by looking at number of ALUTs and registers utilized to implement the design and also the frequency and the number of cycles taken to complete the algorithm. Both designs has its pros and cons as they differ greatly in area, the sum of ALUTs and registers, and the delay, which is the product of the period and the number of cycles. From our results, the parallel design has unsurprisingly the shortest delay, but it takes a large amount of ALUTs and registers. Whereas, the sequential design has a much longer delay, but requires significantly less area to implement. 
